# A1: NewsLab (Collaborative News)

## Goals, Business Context and Environment
The objective of this project is to develop a platform where news and essays written by people all over the world rest side by side, enabling users to interact with the articles by rating or commenting them.

## Motivation
Although increasingly global, the world is becoming incredibly fragmented leading to microenvironments living in self-centered bubbles fed by specialized sources of information. NewsLab proposes to create an all-encompassing place where people can write and discuss news in a collaborative manner, centralizing news and perspectives from all over the world allowing users to create a wholesome outlook on whatever subject they like.

## Main Features
This platform will allow users to not only write articles and comment other people's posts, but also vote on the ones they like/dislike the most, making them rise or sink in the midst of the crowd. In order to never lose the article that they were just reading, we allow them to save it for later. Users can also follow their favorite writers or subjects to keep up to date with new discoveries customized to their preferences. Its intuitive design will make it easy to search and filter the news users are interested in using their PC, tablet or smartphone, allowing them to stay in touch with the world. News can be shared in some social media platforms, in order for the user to notify and interact with who they want.
There will also exist a badge system. Users may collect badges by achieving goals, such as getting a certain number of upvotes on a post. If a user can collect all badges, their profile will receive a "green tick", being part of the "green tick squad". Verified users are deemed as trustworthy, therefore their articles are prioritized when searching for a certain subject and their votes have a greater influence on comments/articles.
The powerful search engine that NewsLab uses allows users to explore the vast amount of posts by title, date, likes, subject or author, with the option of filtering out the ones that are not part of the "squad".


## User Profiles
Regarding the users, there are 4 main types: **Guest** users, that are not logged in and have read-only access to the application's functionalities. They can log in or sign up to become registered **Users**, that can not only read and visualize content, but also write their own news and comments and give feedback to other users' content. **Verified Users** have more recognition than regular users, having priority in their news and comments. **Administrators** have full control of the system, being capable of doing everything a User can, plus reviewing reports, deleting any content on the application and banning users And lastly, users that were banned by an admin (**Banned Users**), that lose the privilege to create content, but can still customize their feed and save articles in the personal library.


|                    | Guest | Banned <br> User | User | Verified <br> User | Admin |
|--------------------|-------|------------------|------|--------------------|-------|
|Read Posts          |   ✓   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|See Profiles        |   ✓   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Read Comments       |   ✓   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|See Likes           |   ✓   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Search              |   ✓   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Filter              |   ✓   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Subscribe Subjects/<br>People |✗|     ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Personalize feed    |   ✗   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Save Favorite Posts |   ✗   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Delete Own Posts    |   ✗   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Delete Own Comments |   ✗   |         ✓        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Write Posts         |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Write Comments      |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Edit Own Posts      |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Edit Own Comments   |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Like/Dislike Posts  |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Like/Dislike Comments|  ✗   |         ✗        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Report Posts        |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Earn Badges         |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✓  |   ✓               |   ✓   |
|Priority in Posts<br>and Comments   |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✗  |   ✓               |   ✗   |
|Delete Others Posts |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✗  |   ✗               |   ✓   |
|Delete Others Comments| ✗   |         ✗        |   ✗  |   ✗               |   ✓   |
|Review Reports      |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✗  |   ✗               |   ✓   |
|Ban Users           |   ✗   |         ✗        |   ✗  |   ✗               |   ✓   |

## Revision history

Revision 1: <br>
1.1. Added "Sign up" functionality to the Guest users. <br> 
1.2. Added "Verified User" as a new type of User Profile. <br>
1.3. Added information about the news sharing in social media platforms. <br>

***
**GROUP2022, 18/02/2020**

* David Luís Dias da Silva, up201705373@fe.up.pt (Editor)
* Eduardo Carreira Ribeiro, up201705421@fe.up.pt
* Luís Pedro Pereira Lopes Mascarenhas Cunha, up201706736@fe.up.pt
* Manuel Monge dos Santos Pereira Coutinho, up201704211@fe.up.pt
